{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red249\green248\blue242;\red36\green36\blue35;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c98039\c97647\c96078;\cssrgb\c18824\c18824\c18039;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Full Transcript: The Cal AI StoryIntroduction: The $100M AppIt's also one of the top health and fitness apps in Apple's app store and is projected to generate more than $30 million in revenue this year. We had just finished 2025 having done $30 million in that year. In December of 2025, an 18-year-old sold his AI app for what experts say could be over $100 million, changing what we thought about software forever. Before most startups needed to have a highly trained team of developers and raised thousands with investors just to start. But this 18-year-old built this app with his high school friends and within a year they scaled it to over $30 million a year in revenue. So today I'm going to break down exactly how this simple app became a hundred million dollar company, the three strategies that actually got it there, and how right now anyone watching this can do the exact same thing.The Origin of Cal AIZach started coding when he was 7 years old because he was obsessed with video games and wanted to make his own. His mom put him in a coding camp and from that point on he spent years building stuff\'97little games and projects here and there that went nowhere. But it gave Zach the knowledge he needed to make the right idea work. The idea came when he wanted to bulk up for the gym and he started tracking calories on MyFitnessPal. But after just three days he quit because of how annoying it was to weigh every meal on a scale and manually type out every single ingredient. To him, every fitness app sucked, and when AI models like ChatGPT started dropping, he saw the opportunity to make something better.The idea is actually really simple: what if you could just take a picture of your food and get the calories instantly without typing or weighing anything? So he teamed up with a friend he met at coding camp and a 23-year-old founder who had already grown two other apps to millions of downloads. Together they built the first version of Cal AI in about a month and launched it around May of 2024. That first version of the app was dead simple but incredibly useful. You basically just had to press one button to take a picture of your food and a prompt was sent to an AI model to calculate the calories. Within 3 to 4 months they hit a million downloads. Then after 6 months, they were generating over a million dollars a month in revenue. And just in the beginning of the year, they sold the app to their biggest competitor for multi-millions\'97some even say over $100 million.The New Era of "Vibe Coding"Now here's what this means to the AI apps and software space. What Zach did is impressive, but the landscape has completely changed since he started. When Zach built Cali, he already knew how to code and that gave him a real advantage. But the advantage you have right now is that the barrier to building an app is basically gone. When Cali launched in 2024, tools like Cursor and Lovable were already making it easier to build software. But now in 2026, we have "vibe coding" tools where you can literally describe what you want and the AI builds the app for you. Even Zach said this: "my friend actually that I went to high school with, he built an app on Replit... it's called Wrestle AI or Fight AI... and it's now doing $30,000 a month and he's also just like a normal kid in college."You don't need to be a developer to build a million-dollar app anymore because you can use tools like Claude Code, Cursor, or Replit without knowing how to code. But here's what hasn't changed: the business side is still the hardest part to make this work and is still 80% of your success.Step 1: Solve a Real ProblemFind your idea. This first step is the one that most people get wrong before they even start building. It's something that Zach had said before: "it's really just about identifying something that you can derive value from or you can see someone around you driving value from." If you are your ideal user, you'll know exactly what to build. That is such an important mindset shift because most people think you start with a product, build something cool, and then you figure out how to sell it. But Zach did the opposite: he started with the problem and then he built a simple version of the solution.People don't download apps because they look good; they download apps because the app solves a very specific problem in their lives. For example, Uber solved the problem of getting a ride without calling a cab. Duolingo solved the problem of language courses being too expensive. And Cali solved the problem of tedious calorie weighing and tracking. Every successful app starts with one core feature that makes someone say "I need that."If you're thinking about building something, here's exactly what I'd do: First, think about your own life. What's a problem that you've run into that frustrates you? Then look at what's already out there and find outdated solutions. For example, MyFitnessPal had been around for over a decade; it was bloated, complicated, and hadn't innovated in years. You can start to look at the top apps in different categories and try them out to see which ones feel old or which ones are doing something that AI could make 10 times easier. Once you have that idea, build the simplest possible version that you can using AI tools. Move fast, because other people will get the same idea too. Cal AI won because they got into the market faster. Don't spend six months perfecting something that nobody has used yet. Get it out there, get real feedback, and iterate.Step 2: Marketing over BuildingIf you had a perfect app but the worst marketing, you would get no downloads. If you had the worst app but amazing marketing, you would still get downloads. Marketing eats just building. What Zach did to grow in a highly competitive market like fitness was reinvest almost all of the money they made back into making sure people knew about the app.Zach sent hundreds of DMs each day to fitness creators on TikTok and Instagram. At first almost nobody responded, but he kept going until he found creators willing to work with him. They didn't ask influencers to do any hard selling; instead, they told the creator to make their regular content and somewhere in the first 15 seconds show themselves using Cali. Because scanning your food is so visual, people watching would immediately notice it and flood the comments asking "What app is that?" It feels more like getting a recommendation from a friend than a traditional ad.To get your app in front of people: Find 20 to 30 creators in your market. They don't need to be huge; even someone with a few thousand followers works. DM them, show them why their audience would care, and offer a flat rate for a bundle of videos. Most importantly, give them complete creative freedom. The less it looks like an ad, the better it works. Finally, track everything\'97look at views versus downloads to see what content works best.Step 3: Predictable Income & RetentionA lot of people think that once someone downloads your app the deal is done, but it's actually just starting. To build predictable revenue, you need to make sure every single user you already have keeps using the app. If users download it, use it for a week, and then leave, the whole business model falls apart.Cali did this through three strategies. First, the onboarding: when you first open the app, it asks personal questions about your goals and motivations. By the time someone has answered 10 questions, they've already invested time and emotional energy, making paying for a subscription feel like the obvious next step.Second, they made the app effortless. Taking a picture takes maybe 5 seconds compared to manually searching for your food or putting it on a scale. The less effort it takes, the more likely people are to keep using it. Third, they added small features that reinforce the habit, like daily streaks, simple dashboards, and health scores. These give users a reason to check in every single day.When your monthly revenue is solid and predictable, that's when your app becomes attractive to bigger companies and acquisition offers start to come in. Cali selling for millions proved that the opportunity right now is real. A teenager with no investors built an AI app into a company worth hundreds of millions of dollars. The AI space is moving insanely fast, so you need to act with speed. That's why I created a roadmap file based on Cali's success. You can join my community for free with the link in the description. Thanks for staying until the end and I'll see you guys in the next one.}